transactions: improve clarity of transactions (#3715)
pingcap/docs: transaction-overview.md

# Transactions

> TiDB supports distributed transactions using either [pessimistic](/pessimistic-transaction.md) or [optimistic](/optimistic-transaction.md) transaction models. Starting with TiDB 3.0, the default behavior is to use pessimistic transactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB supports distributed transactions using either [pessimistic](/pessimistic-transaction.md) or [optimistic](/optimistic-transaction.md) transaction models. Starting from TiDB 3.0.8, TiDB uses the pessimistic transaction model by default.
```

COMMIT;
```

> **Tip:**
>

> > Make sure that your application correctly handles that a `COMMIT` statement could return an error before enabling [optimistic transactions](/optimistic-transaction.md). If you are unsure of how your application handles this, it is recommended to instead use the default of [pessimistic transactions](/pessimistic-transaction.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Make sure that your application correctly handles that a `COMMIT` statement could return an error before enabling [optimistic transactions](/optimistic-transaction.md). If you are unsure of how your application handles this, it is recommended to instead use the default [pessimistic transactions](/pessimistic-transaction.md).
```

Author: I think this actually changes the meaning. By removing `of`, it implies that there could be more than one type of pessimistic transactions.

ROLLBACK;
```

Transactions are also automatically rolled back if the client connection is aborted or closed.

## Autocommit

> As part of MySQL compatibility, TiDB supports the ability to _autocommit_ a statement immediately following its execution.

Reviewer: Perhaps it's weird to say TiDB is part of xx compatibility? Generally, we would say TiDB is a product/database/....

Author: It's a polite way of saying "this is not TiDB's fault, it has to act in this silly way to be MySQL compatible". It could also say "As required for MySQL compatibility, TiDB will by default _autocommit_ statements immediately following their execution."

Reviewer: I prefer the new version.

> As part of MySQL compatibility, TiDB supports the ability to _autocommit_ a statement immediately following its execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As required for MySQL compatibility, TiDB will by default _autocommit_ statements immediately following their execution.
```

> i.e.

Reviewer: To make wording consistent.
```suggestion
For example:
```

```sql
mysql> CREATE TABLE t1 (
    ->  id INT NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY auto_increment,
    ->  pad1 VARCHAR(100)
    -> );
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.09 sec)

mysql> SELECT @@autocommit;
+--------------+
| @@autocommit |
+--------------+
| 1            |
+--------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)

mysql> INSERT INTO t1 VALUES (1, 'test');
Query OK, 1 row affected (0.02 sec)

mysql> ROLLBACK;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.01 sec)

mysql> SELECT * FROM t1;
+----+------+
| id | pad1 |
+----+------+
|  1 | test |
+----+------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

> In the above example, the `ROLLBACK` statement has no effect. This is because the `INSERT` statement executed in autocommit. That is, it was the equivalent of the following single-statement transaction:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above example, the `ROLLBACK` statement has no effect. This is because the `INSERT` statement is executed in autocommit. That is, it was the equivalent of the following single-statement transaction:
```

## Lazy check of constraints

> By default, optimistic transactions will not check [primary key](/constraints.md#primary-key) or [unique constraints](/constraints.md#unique-key) when a DML statement is executed. These checks are instead performed on transaction `COMMIT`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, optimistic transactions will not check the [primary key](/constraints.md#primary-key) or [unique constraints](/constraints.md#unique-key) when a DML statement is executed. These checks are instead performed on transaction `COMMIT`.
```

```sql
CREATE TABLE test (id INT NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY);
BEGIN;
INSERT INTO test VALUES (1);
INSERT INTO tset VALUES (2);  -- Statement does not take effect because "test" is misspelled as "tset".
INSERT INTO test VALUES (1),(2);  -- Entire statement does not take effect because it violates a PRIMARY KEY constraint
INSERT INTO test VALUES (3);
COMMIT;
SELECT * FROM test;
```

```sql
mysql> CREATE TABLE test (id INT NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY);
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.09 sec)

mysql> BEGIN;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)

mysql> INSERT INTO test VALUES (1);
Query OK, 1 row affected (0.02 sec)

mysql> INSERT INTO tset VALUES (2);  -- Statement does not take effect because "test" is misspelled as "tset".
ERROR 1146 (42S02): Table 'test.tset' doesn't exist
mysql> INSERT INTO test VALUES (1),(2);  -- Entire statement does not take effect because it violates a PRIMARY KEY constraint
ERROR 1062 (23000): Duplicate entry '1' for key 'PRIMARY'
mysql> INSERT INTO test VALUES (3);
Query OK, 1 row affected (0.00 sec)

mysql> COMMIT;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.01 sec)

mysql> SELECT * FROM test;
+----+
| id |
+----+
|  1 |
|  3 |
+----+
2 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

> In the above example, the transaction remains open after the failed insert statements. The final insert statement is then successful and changes are committed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above example, the transaction remains open after the failed `INSERT` statements. The final insert statement is then successful and changes are committed.
```
